What an experience!
That’s why loyalty to Jehovah
has been so important.
That is so true, Brother Brown.
How about you?
Has your loyalty ever been tested?
Oh, yeah, I remember.
It was years ago,
and an elder came to give me counsel
after a talk,
and let’s just say
I was not expecting  . . .
You were really quiet the whole way home.
Is everything all right?
Yeah, I’m fine.
What is on your mind?
I can’t believe the nerve that Ben has.
Ben?
Yeah, Ben.
He gave me counsel about that talk
that I gave last week.
Really?
What did he say?
I don’t know.
Something like
I didn’t use enough scriptures.
Whatever.
I mean, it was hard to listen to.
You know, I’ve been an elder
longer than he has,
and he comes up to me
and gives me counsel
about my teaching!
Please tell me you didn’t argue with him.
No, of course not.
But it wasn’t easy.
I thanked him and said something like,
‘I’ll give it careful thought,
and apply what you said.’
So you did the right thing.
Yes, but did I really?
I took the counsel,
but I don’t like my attitude.
I let pride get in the way
of another elder giving me counsel
just because I’ve been an elder longer.
So, what are you going to do about it?
Pray, I mean, that’s what I should do.
And then
go to Ben and ask him to explain
what I didn’t give him a chance to explain.
Wow!
Brother Brown, I can’t picture
you reacting that way to counsel.
Let alone getting counsel!
That was the problem; neither could I.
If I was going to remain loyal to Jehovah,
I needed an attitude adjustment.
So, what did you do?
I prayed,
and I asked if I could really conduct myself
as a lesser one.
I went back to Ben
and asked him to give me the counsel
that he had prepared for me.
I volunteered for assignments
that I hadn’t done for a while.
You know, things that we do
that go unnoticed.
And little by little,
my attitude improved.
After that, I felt closer to Jehovah.
Seeing the need for more humility,
well, was humbling.
I never realized, but it seems like everyone
has had lessons to learn along the way.
Believe me, I am still learning.
If I hadn’t changed back then
with Jehovah’s help,
oh, things would be so different today.
If I hadn’t changed back then
with Jehovah’s help,
oh, things would be so different today.
I think I’m going to get
some more water.
I guess I’m not the only one
whose loyalty was tested.
But for me, it was a little more subtle.
My phone was a door to just about everything.
But that door opened to some places
I shouldn’t have gone.
At first I thought,
‘It’s not pornography, so it’s OK.’
But still
what I was seeing filled my mind
with immoral thoughts,
and I couldn’t stop.
Galatians 6:7, 8 reads:
“Do not be misled:
God is not one to be mocked.
“For whatever a person is sowing,
this he will also reap.”
Reap what you sow.
I was sowing unclean desires
and reaping a double heart,
desensitized to things Jehovah hates.
“Turn my eyes away
from looking at what is worthless.”
It wasn’t just whether an image
is considered pornography.
Anything that stirs up unclean thoughts
is worthless, and I should turn my eyes away.
But I had to do more.
Those weren’t just the psalmist’s words;
they had to be my words.
Words I’ve had to act on ever since
to stay loyal to Jehovah.
Ahh.
Thanks, Karen.
All right.
You know, we’ve been talking about times
when our loyalty has been put to the test
and not to put you on the spot,
but didn’t you have an experience?
Mhm.
I did, and I don’t mind sharing.
It was when I was
at that office job in the city.
It was just coffee as usual.
Karen, we’re making some coffee.
Did you want some?
Oh, I’d love it.
The good stuff, right?
Oh, yes!
Thanks.
Boy, I can smell it.
And somebody brought treats.
It’s wonderful, thank you.
Yeah.
So how are things going for you?
But this time she started telling me
about her problems at home.
So John, he got a text message
from his ex-girlfriend.
No!
That must be very hard for you.
Yeah, it is.
You know, there are
some things in the Bible
that have helped me in my marriage
that I would love to show you.
I was excited about the chance
to give a witness.
Hey, good morning.
Is that for me?
I know how you like it.
Oh, thank you.
From time to time, we talked;
we kept the conversations brief.
And that was it.
Hey!
But over time, the conversations grew.
And husbands and family
were often the hot topic.
And everyone had a viewpoint.
You know, if I may,
there are some things
in the Scriptures that I think  . . .
I still thought
I could give a witness
and actually teach them
something about Jehovah.
Oh, no, um, honey,
it doesn’t work like that.
Pff.
Sorry, Karen.
Too much information, right?
You know, with a husband like that . . .
But in reality, I was the one being taught.
...Tell me about it.
You have all three.
I have all three...
And I was a quick learner.
...I only have one,
and that’s all I can handle.
That’s enough.
I was sure their thinking
wasn’t rubbing off on me
until one day when Robert called.
The girls knew that Robert and I had had
a small disagreement that morning.
And he was calling to apologize,
although some of it was my fault.
Karen, did you want to get a little coffee?
Oh, it’s him.
If you don’t want
to talk to him now, then don’t.
Besides, it sounds like he could use
a little silent treatment.
I couldn’t believe the effect the association
was having on my attitude and my marriage.
But what could you do?
You worked with them every day,
and you were able
to give a witness sometimes.
But I had let it turn into regular,
unnecessary association
that was spoiling my useful habits.
And that had to change.
I started keeping things
friendly but professional.
I was more cautious,
as I would be if they had invited me out
or if a male coworker had invited me
to join him for a break.
Hmm.
So did that work?
It did, and I was so relieved.
And so was I.
Jehovah gave us the good morals
and habits that we have.
Exposing myself to bad association
was being disloyal to him.
When I think how far
we are now into the  . . .
Oh, thank Jehovah.
How is it out there?
It’s not good.
It won’t be long—maybe an hour.
Is-is Kevin with you?
He said that he’s not coming;
that he doesn’t want to have anything
to do with us anymore.
How sad.
Now, this far into the great tribulation.
I just don’t get it.
Kevin knows we’re in the great tribulation.
Why would he say he doesn’t want
anything to do with us anymore?
Darren, I thought you had heard by now.
Heard what?
When our message changed
from good news to judgment,
he was telling everyone that it
would make problems for us
and that he was done.
I can’t believe it!
Darren, think about it,
we have all tried to help Kevin.
Yeah, I remember.
Think back to Sunday afternoons
when we preached to the Northern Estates,
we asked if he wanted to go.
What did they give us today?
Well, we’ll go to the Northern Estates,
and then . . .
OK.
Hey! Hey, Kevin!
Did you want to join us?
We’re going up to the Northern Estates.
Yeah, he said that he
had the weekend shift, again.
And that the people there
have their paradise,
and they don’t listen anyway.
Your car is over here.
And when we’d do public witnessing. . .
Hey, Kevin, we’ve been having
great experiences out there at Turner Street.
Yeah, that sounds nice.
Yeah, that’s by your job.
Do you get to talk
to your coworkers about it?
He said that it wasn’t a good idea
to make waves at the store.
For as much as we’ve all tried to help Kevin,
he let his fear of man go unresolved.
Proverbs says: “Trembling at men is a snare.”
If Kevin couldn’t preach
with boldness during favorable times,
imagine how much harder it was for him
to loyally rely on Jehovah
during this difficult time.
Yeah, now during the great tribulation.
Open up!
What is going on out there?
They’re just north of town,
searching every house.
Every house?
Yeah.
The neighborhood is in a panic.
Let’s stay calm
and lean on Jehovah.
At some point, we can expect
the final attack on God’s people.
But Jehovah is going to give us
the courage we need.
So let’s pray together,
we’ll read the Scriptures,
and we’ll keep sharing
what’s helped us remain loyal to God.